# Data-Science
**About me**
- I have been coding since 2008, started with formally learning to code in **Java** (received an A at a premiere Institute in India). Completed several projects with **C++** and **MATLAB** and did a research project using **FORTRAN**! All of this during my undergraduate degree. It is true that once you understand one programming language, it is relatively easy to learn a new one. I wrote 1000s of lines of codes and ran simulations on clusters and adapted simulations to perform parallel computing. 
- During my undergraduate, I published algorithms to predict the accuracy of Markov chain models with applications in Molecular simulations using kinetic Monte Carlo. 
- I moved to one of the best places to study in the USA, *Madison, WI*. I took a course on Optimisation where I used **GAMS** and solved famous problems including *Travelling salesman, solving Sudoko, etc.* using *mixed integer linear programming (MILP)*. I also took another course on Biostatistics and wrote several codes to perform *Hierarchical clustering using different distance measures, BLAST (one of the most popular algorithms for searching DNA sequences), etc.* using C++. I remember it being very rewarding to write codes from scratch. But programming was going to change with the emergence of libraries in **Python** and **R**!
- My PhD research involved conducting experiments on cancer cells and analysing *metabolomics* data. I used **MATLAB** to automate several data preprocessing steps. I also made beating heart cells in a dish which was extremely cool! This was the time when I started using R and applied dimensionality reduction techniques including **Principal component analysis (PCA) and Partial Least-Squares Discriminant Analysis (PLS-DA)**, **Hierarchical clustering**, **Pathway enrichment analyses**, and several other *chemiinformatic* and *statistical methods such as one way analysis of variance (one way-ANOVA)*. I collaborated extensively and conducted research in metabolism, stem cells, stroke, age-related macular degeneration and also won the **WARF Discovery Challenge Grant**!
- I continued using R during my post-doctoral research, this time to analyse transcriptomic datasets consisting of information from 20,000 genes! I analysed and visualised the data and developed and tested hypotheses! I also learned to work with mice and made some amazing discoveries!
- Nowadays, I routinely use Jupyter Notebooks (Python) to develop visualisations to aid in teaching complex and abstract mathematical concepts. I enjoy working with students and help them in their coding journey. I have managed several projects which involved coding in **Perl**, **LaTeX**, **HTML**, and **Maple**. With this repository, I aim to take the users through the journey of using Python in Data Science applications. 

**Content description**
This repository will aim to include my projects where I have analysed data and applied machine learning concepts to gain insights. Below are some key summary potints about the content of this repository:

1. I have designed the content to serve as annotated notes for someone with basic background in Python to understand why we use certain steps.
2. In some cases, I have applied methods on well-known datasets while in other cases, I have analysed my own datasets (*which are quite messy and the point here is to gain practice with working on messy datasets as life is not as clean as well-known datasets!*)
3. The order of the content is more logical and is supposed to help someone embarking on this beautiful journey of using Python for Data Science.
4. The emphasis is on concepts and syntax of the code. 

